It here's problem 21.
This is probably one of my favorite problems I think this is kind of a good one I think if you understand
this when you understand a lot about what's going on here.
So the circuit in the diagram here contains three light bulbs represented by these crosses here.
Initially the switch is closed.
OK.
So and then which of the following is correct about how bright these light bulbs are.
If you open the switch.
So one little comment about this brightness.
You're basically looking at the current How much current is flowing through that light bulb that's going
to dictate how bright it is.
So they either get brighter dimmer.
They go out.
All right.
So we have to do is first you have to compare what's going on when the switch is closed and versus when
it's open.
So it's first to the case when it's closed.
When it's close look what we have.
And let's assume the resistance of each light bulb is are there all three identical light bulbs.
So that means that the equivalent resistance of both of these that are in parallel if both of these
are in parallel the equivalent resistance of both of those is going to be are over to and check that
for yourself.
And now you have to combine that with this guy.
Both of these are in series with this one.
So this here is really the total equivalent resistance when it's closed so Ohm's law says well it's
determine how much current we have then.
So again let me this right here this is one it's closed.
This here is the equivalent resistance.
All right.
Ohm's law now says V equals to our eye.
So if we want to find how much current kind of flows through the battery flows through this one we can
use our equation with our equivalent resistor or we're going to find here is that the current eye has
some voltage V and divided by my equivalent resistance.
So that's 3R that a dividing by two digits being the two upstairs over here so let's go ahead and don't
know where is this current in the circuit.
So that means this is the current I hear it's also the same current flowing down here current flowing
through the battery.
Now what happens when I have a current I flowing into a junction that tells me that half of it is going
to go here and half of it is going to go here.
And the reason that it splits perfectly in half in this case is because the resistance of each path
is the same.
So that means the current down here has to be over three are.
All right.
So I mean write all that down.
So that means that the current flowing through lightbulb three when it's closed is going to be going
to is going to write this out as a as a firm as a as a floating point number two divided by three is
0.66 be over are and what else the current now flowing through light bulb Number two is simply going
to be a third a third a V over are which gives me zero point three three be over.
All right.
So that's case number one.
Now I have to compare that now to what happens when the switch is open when it's open it goes like this.
That means that I kind of get rid of some of this here.
That means that the resistance of this upper branch is basically infinite.
It means I really only have a single loop.
So let's go do that one over here when it's open.
The total resistance are equivalent simply going to be two times are.
So that means now that the current flowing through both of them flowing through this one is going to
be the same as the current flowing through light bulb number three.
And this is going to be equal to the voltage divided by my total equivalent resistance which is two
are.
So this guy here gives me 0.5 V over.
OK so what happens.
So I started out when it's close at zero point three three.
So what happens to the current through light bulb number.
Light bulb two at one goes up.
It increases it went from point three three 2.5.
And what happens to the current flowing through light bulb number three.
This one goes down
so that one this one here is going to get dimmer.
So we have gets brighter for number two goes down or get dimmer for bulb number three.
The correct answer for this one has to be choice a little bit of a longer problem but I think it captures
a lot of what's going on.
Hopefully you understand this problem.
Our problem 22.
What's the current in the circuit above.
This one is a little bit more straightforward.
So I've got a two and three home that are in series and I've got a 6 in a 12 first that are in parallel
with each other.
So let me first just simplify both of those the equivalent resistance.
There's only two of them that are in parallel with each other.
You simply multiply them and you divide it by the sum.
It could get rid of the six here put it three.
Get rid of the 12 here put a four at the end you're simply left with forums.
So that's simply that.
Now the total equivalent resistance is going to be two plus for almost what I just calculated plus three
which gives me six plus three nine.
I have any volt battery.
Pretty straightforward.
The current is the voltage divided by my total are equivalent 18 over nine which gives me two.
So if I go back to the circuit that means you'd have to over here you'd have to right up until the junction
and you'd have some current that would split and you'd have to going through here to flowing through
this two ohm resistor because the correct answer for this one.